  My first words will be words of congratulation 
to Mr. Hollai on his unanimous election to the 
presidency of this thirty-seventh session of the 
General Assembly. It is a choice which does 
honour to his outstanding qualities as a person 
and an experienced diplomat and is also a tribute 
to his country, the People's Republic of Hungary, 
whose positive contribution to the work of the 
Organization is well known. It is a pleasure for 
me to assure him of my delegation's complete 
co-operation as he carries out the difficult but 
exalted task of guiding our work during this 
period of disarray, instability and violence in 
the affairs of the world. I take this opportunity 
also to pay a tribute to his outstanding 
predecessor in this post. Mr. Kittani of Iraq, 
for the competence and patience without 
firmness-which he demonstrated as he carried out 
the lofty functions entrusted to him during the 
thirty-sixth session and the special sessions of 
the General Assembly held this year. Finally 
1should like to express my admiration for the 
Secretary-General for the clarity, courage and 
competence with which he has been fulfilling for 
almost a year now the prestigious functions 
vested in him by the Organization. We find 
stunning proof of these qualities in his report 
on the work of the Organization and which raises 
the vital question for the international 
community-the future of the United Nations.

264. It cannot be disputed that the erosion of 
the authority of the Organization has for several 
years now been a source of major concern to the 
international community. Never indeed has the 
feeling of such a collapse been so keenly felt in 
the world. Without respect for the principles of 
the Charter, there could be no international 
society that would be peaceful, harmonious and 
balanced, yet they have been systematically 
flouted. Instead of those principles the threat 
or use of force is often resorted to in the 
settlement of disputes. The revival of the cold 
war, the hegemonistic rivalries of the major 
Powers and the self-centred attitude of Member 
States bring about a situation in which the 
United Nations is usually bypassed in the search 
for solutions to the problems which the world 
faces.
265. When it happens that countries turn to the 
United Nations, it is often for the reason of 
giving free rein to ideological confrontations 
for propaganda purposes, or as an alibi. so that 
only their own point of view prevails. If they do 
not succeed, they do not hesitate to block the 
functioning of the Security Council by abusing 
the right of veto. Nevertheless this right was 
established in order to serve as an instrument to 
safeguard the priceless common good of peace and 
security in the world; it was not meant to be a 
shield against sanctions that the Organization 
can apply when there are flagrant violations of 
the principles of the Charter.
266. Moreover, we must feel alarmed at the 
serious financial difficulties, resulting from 
the parsimonious contributions of Member States, 
particularly the most wealthy, in the operations 
of the specialized agencies, which were 
established with the noble purpose of promoting 
the harmonious and unified development of our 
countries.
267. Regardless of what idea one might have of 
the role of the United Nations, it is the 
conviction of Cameroon, a former ward of the 
Organization, that the Organization must remain 
the single preferred instrument for maintaining 
international peace and security, the 
irreplaceable forum for international 
negotiations and the tribune of the conscience of 
mankind.
268. That is why we have constantly deplored the 
paralysis and the crumbling of the credibility of 
the United Nations as a place for the settlement 
of international disputes during this period of 
tension and confusion, when it should enjoy 
authority commensurate with the scope and the 
complexity of the burning issues of our time.
269. Unfortunately the inclusion in the agenda of 
this session of numerous questions that have 
faced the world community for decades testifies 
to the growing weakening of our institution. 
Among them we must cite, above all, the questions 
of disarmament. It was a matter of concern for 
all States even before the establishment of the 
United Nations, and that concern has been revived 
by the acute psychosis aroused by the threat of a 
nuclear holocaust that looms over mankind.
270. In spite of long years of negotiation, of 
recommendations of the General Assembly, and 
vehement protest on the part of the public, the 
situation remains explosive because of the 
absence of the political will among the major 
Powers, all of which have increased their 
military expenditures and are continuing to 
manufacture the most sophisticated and 
increasingly deadly weapons.
271. At the second special session devoted to 
disarmament, which was held in June in New York, 
the Assembly did not even manage to adopt a 
consensus text as it did at the first special 
session on disarmament in 1978. The sole 
achievement of that session was the granting of a 
few disarmament fellowships. That surely proves 
that the major Powers and their antagonistic 
military alliances fighting for domination of the 
world are not yet ready to join in a substantive 
dialogue that could lead us resolutely towards 
the general and complete disarmament advocated in 
numerous resolutions of the United Nations.
272. The question of the Middle East, which has 
been before us since 1947, has undergone more and 
more tragic developments, which have horrified 
and alarmed the international community, since 
the invasion of Lebanon on 6 June of this year. 
We vigorously condemn the hideous massacres of 
women children and old people in the Palestinian 
camps in west Beirut. It is deplorable that the 
resolutions and decisions adopted by the Security 
Council on the question of the Middle East, 
particularly with regard to Palestine, have 
remained a dead letter.
273. As we' have never ceased to state  the 
solution of the Palestinian problem is the key to 
any just and lasting overall settlement of the 
question of the Middle East. This implies that 
Israel, which, like the other States in the 
region, has the right to live in peace within 
secure and recognized boundaries, must with draw 
from the Arab territories occupied since 1967 
including Jerusalem, and must recognize the 
inalienable rights of the Palestinian people 
represented by the PLO, including the right to 
have an Arab Palestinian homeland.
274. The time has certainly come for the 
intensive efforts at present under way to end the 
long tragedy being played out in the Middle East 
to take into account these fundamental facts; 
otherwise international peace and security will 
remain threatened in that particularly sensitive 
region of the world, which could serve as the 
detonator for a world-wide catastrophe.
275. The Namibian crisis and the base policy of 
apartheid of the racist South Mrican regime 
constitute in Africa two examples of typical 
situations whose worsening over the period of 
three decades constitutes a humiliating defiance 
of the international community In spite of the 
various means set forth in the Charter for ending 
these anachronistic and universally condemned 
situations, South Africa has not yielded an inch 
0 ground, in spite of the numerous statements and 
the pretences of negotiation repeatedly launched 
in order to give the impression that it is 
prepared to co-operate with the United Nations in 
settling these questions.
276. Even though it IS a decolonization question, 
and even though it is so clearly defined that 
there can be no doubt about it, the question of 
Namibia which has been under examination since 
the first session of the AsseJ1lbly, in 1946, is 
still on the agenda 36 years later.
277. Nevertheless, it is important to recall that 
the patient and laborious efforts of the 
international community have finally made it 
possible to c()me up with a broad consensus, with 
which South Africa has associated itself, to 
bring about a solution of the problem within the 
framework of Security Council resolution 435 
(1978). While that resolution remains the basis 
for any peaceful solution to bring about 
authentic independence for Namibia, the delays 
arid turnabouts to which South Africa has 
accustomed us raise Â§some doubts about the real 
willingness of the racist minority of Pretmia to 
release its grip on that international territory.
278. The same is true for the inhumane policy of 
apartheid, which has been unanimously condemned 
by the General Assembly as a crime against 
humanity and which has been recognized by the 
Security Council as being a threat to 
international peace and security Nevertheless, 
having been outlawed and banished from the 
international community, South Mrica continues to 
evade the sanctions provided for in Chapter VII 
of the Charter, and continues to strengthen its 
repressive machinery against the black majority, 
which is still denied the most elementary human 
rights.
279. The criminal obstinacy of the racist regime 
of Pretoria can be explained only by the powerful 
sup-port it has been enjoying even within the 
Organization, which it uses to carry out with 
impunity acts of aggression against neighbouring 
African States. We condemn those acts, which 
create and maintain in southern Africa a climate 
of instability and dangerous tension. We reaffirm 
our solidarity with the Namibian people in their 
struggle to regain their independence and to 
enjoy all their rights under the aegis of SWAPO, 
their sole authentic representative. We also 
stand shoulder to shoulder with the front-line 
African States, which have willingly been making 
heavy sacrifices so that the liberty and dignity 
of the black man in southern Africa may triumph.

279.	All of us are well aware of the many very 
clear and firm resolutions and decisions of the 
General Assembly and 'lf the Security Council on 
other important questions which have not yet been 
resolved and which give rise to instability, 
tension and con-fusion, all of which are 
disturbing the international climate.

280.	First there is the question of Cyprus. In 
this regard we have on many occasions asked for 
the withdrawal of the foreign troops from that 
country as a basis for a settlement of this 
question, and we have reaffirmed the necessity to 
respect the territorial integrity, the unity and 
the non-alignment of that State. It is high time 
the resolutions adopted on that matter were 
implemented.

282.	With regard to Kampuchea, again we must 
emphasize that the solution can only be a 
political one and it must not be interfered with 
from outside in any way. Therefore we wish to 
reaffirm that the Kampuchean people itself has 
the right to decide its own .future and its 
political, economic and social options. 
Everything should be done to promote the 
achievement of those objectives.

283.	The same is true  of Afghanistan, where 
the situation still threatens the peace and 
security of the whole of the region of South-West 
Asia. Here again, the withdrawal of foreign 
troops and total respect

for the independence, sovereignty, territorial 
integrity and non-aligned status of that country 
are in our view of .fundamental-importance to the 
settlement of the question.

284. We are deeply troubled by the alarming 
development of these problems, which are of 
fundamental concern to the international 
community.

28Sr The difficulties experienced by the United 
Nations in playing its decisive role in the 
safeguarding of international peace and security 
have also prevented I it from effectively 
fulfilling another part of its lofty' 
mission-:-to achieve international co-operation 
in solving international problems of an economic 
and social character. In this regard the delay in 
the launching of the global negotiations 
envisaged in General Assembly resolution 34/138 
is an obvious example.

286. Despite the major concessions that have been 
made by the Group of 77 and the political will 
that


was evident in that Group throughout the 
consultations that took place during the 
thirty-sixth session, that resolution remains 
unimplemented because of the intransigence of 
some industrialized countries. This blockage 
cannot but have negative and destabilizing 
effects upon the fragile economies of the 
developing countries, because some of the 
essential objectives of the International 
Development Strategy for the Third United Nations 
Development Decade, such as increased official 
development aid or the mobilization of resources 
in favour of the least-developed countries, have 
not been achieved within the envisaged timetable.

287. The balance-sheet of the Third United 
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea 
demonstrates that with regained and increased 
solidarity and political will it is possible to 
attain results that safeguard the basic interests 
of all States and enhance the prestige of the 
Organization. Indeed, after eight years of 
intensive and thorny discussions the negotiations 
on the law of the sea led to the adoption last 
summer of a new Convention dealing with all 
aspects of this problem. How can one not regret 
the reluctance of some countries to associate 
themselves with that result? We urgently appeal 
to them to join in the general consensus.

288. The state of the world economy, which is 
dominated by recession, unemployment, widespread 
inflation and monetary instability, gives us 
another reason for deep concern because it 
affects all sectors of activity in an countries, 
particularly the counties of the third world, 
which indeed are the major victims, as is 
indicated in the reports of all specialized 
agencies, particularly the World Bank, as well as 
IMF.

289. Indeed, the situation of the developing 
countries, and particularly the least developed, 
is extremely critical. Their current account 
deficits are growing because of the continuous 
deterioration in the terms of trade and rising 
interest rates, whereas increased recourse to 
capital markets and reserves to finance these 
deficits burdens their external debt further and 
reduces their development opportul1lities.

290.	In the view of my delegation this crisis 
can be resolved only through implementation of 
measures on which there has been common agreement 
within the framework of the new international 
economic order.

291.	We should be wrong if we did not begin to 
face this problem with a sense of solidarity. It 
would be useless for us to continue to resort to 
self-interested measures such as restrictive 
policies exemplified by increased protectionism 
and some essentially

monetarist choices. Indeed the world economy as a 
whole is taking a dangerous turn, and the 
aftermath may be socio-political problems that 
may threaten the very existence of young nations.

292. Responsibility for this state of affairs 
rests basically with the developed countries, not 
all of which, apparently, are yet convinced that 
solution of the current economic crisis requires 
an increasingly global approach rather than 
simple domestic readjustments that in the final 
analysis are merely temporarily palliatives. This 
approach deliberately disregards the true 
interdependence of all the actors on the world 
economic stage that has so often been 
demonstrated by experience.

293. So far as Cameroon is concerned, as has 
frequently been stated by its head of State, 
there can be no doubt that at this time the 
launching of global negotiations in the framework 
of the United Nations is the best way to promote 
among States the development of just and 
equitable economic relations. World economic 
turmoil can be alleviated only within a climate 
of co-operation, joint effort and dialogue 
between States and the peoples of all nations. 
This means that international relations must be 
organized democratically and it presupposes a 
real desire equitably to readjust relations 
between industrialized and third-world countries, 
in the context of world-wide solidarity.

294. The United Nations was created to safeguard 
certain ideals and principles that would 
guarantee international peace and security and 
promote the progress and united development of 
Member States while respecting a code of conduct 
whose principles are clearly defined by the 
Charter. For that reason in the Charter the 
founding  fathers of the Organization formally 
enjoined us to practise tolerance, to live in 
peace in a spirit of good-neighbourliness, to 
reject the use of force in the settlementof 
conflicts and to have recourse to international 
institutions to promote the economic and social 
progress of peoples.

295. A single generation separates us from the 
solemn proclamation of that commitment. In view 
of some of the painful, indeed intolerable, 
situations we have just mentioned, we feel we 
have largely lost sight of that commitment, which 
was freely entered into. The discrepancy between 
the ideals of the Charter to which Member States 
subscribed and the: actual conduct of those 
States is a fundamental cause of the crisis 
besetting the Organization, which, need it be 
reiterated, is no more than a mirror of our 
society.

296. The expansion of the United Nations with the 
emergence of young nations has enhanced its 
universalist vocation and that means that all 
Member States must reaffirm their loyalty to the 
Organization so that it can play its full role. 
This increased universalization, which the law of 
the majority has legitimized, must be the 
foundation of international legal order. However, 
in our view this development has led the great 
Powers to feel disappointment-so much so that the 
Organization is largely left to one side in the 
settlement of the major problems affecting the 
fate of all peoples. We certainly recognize the 
particular responsibilities of those Powers in 
the conduct of world affairs. But, in a world in 
which the progress of science and technology has 
accentuated the interdependence of nations, we 
shall continue to reiterate that no State or 
group of States, however powerful can in and of 
itself solve mankind's problems.

297. It is therefore a matter of urgency that we 
return to what inspired the creation of the 
Organization and strongly support the wise 
proposal of the Secretary-General that a special 
series of Security Council meetings be convened 
at the highest level to seek ways and means to 
reimbue that essential organ with the 
effectiveness and authority it needs to discharge 
the special responsibilities conferred upon it by 
the Charter.

298. We are gratified that the Secretary-General 
has unambiguously raised the question of the very 
usefulness of the United Nations. What is 
involved is whether we, the Member States, are 
ready to let the Organization die a death similar 
to that of the League of Nations or whether we 
are determined to revitalize it by ensuring that 
our conduct accords with the principles and 
ideals of the Charter.

299. For Cameroon, the answer is clear. As Mr. 
Ahmadou Ahidjo said from this same rostrum more 
than 10 years ago:

"The unity of man's destiny is today more 
concrete and more evident than ever before. Forâ¢ 
the first time in history, mankind is consciously 
becoming a unified whole. For the first time, man 
has at his disposal the means of shaping his own 
destiny, allaying poverty and triumphing over 
violence.
"Is it utopian to ask the United Nations, which, 
we repeat, embodies our hopes for a better world, 
to deploy all its resources so as to ensure that 
our era, which sees a universal civilization 
taking shape, is the beginning of a reign of 
genuine brotherhood in the world?..
