 I have the 
honor of addressing the Genera Assembly on behalf 
of the European Community and its Member States, 
in this capacity I take pleasure in 
con-gratulating you, Mr. President, on your 
election to the presidency of this 
Seventy-seventh session of the General Assembly.
37.	I should further like to express the 
Community's appreciation to the outgoing 
President for the leadership he has shown en so 
many occasions during the past year
38.	The 10 Member states of the European 
Com¬munity also wish to congratulate the new 
Secretary- General, now attending his first 
regular session of the Assembly. His tireless 
efforts in pursuit of peace during his first year 
in office have already—and justly— brought him 
worldwide attention. The Secretary-General's 
strong committee, to upholding the pur¬poses and 
principles of the United Nations is brilliantly 
demonstrated in his report on the work of the 
Organ¬ization, which is thoughtful and thought- 
provoking. We, the countries of the world, would 
do well to heed his advice that as an important 
first step we should consciously recommit 
ourselves to seeking negotiated solutions to the 
world's many problems by adhering strictly to the 
Charter of the United Nations.
39.	The world today presents a bleak picture. 
It is becoming increasingly difficult to remain 
optimistic about the future. Grave conflicts have 
continued to take place in many parts of the 
world in the period that has elapsed since the 
thirty-sixth session. The threat remains that 
local and regional conflicts will escalate to the 
global level. The world is in the grip of the 
worst economic recession in decades. All nations, 
and in particular the developing countries, risk 
jeopardizing the hard-won achievements made 
through international co-operation. Fundamental 
human rights are being increasingly violated in 
many parts of the world. This combination of 
challenges which the international community is 
facing today calls for determined action and 
constructive co-operation. The situation requires 
something more—and something other—than each 
nation working to solve its own problems. Wisdom 
and statesmanship are required if we are to meet 
these challenges. We must admit that 
interdependence inescapably characterizes the 
world today. We must learn, as the 
Secretary-General so rightly puts it in his 
report, "to differentiate between short-term 
advantage and long-term progress, between 
politically expedient positions and the 
indispensable objective of creating a civilized 
and peaceful world order".
40. The United Nations provides the framework and 
the forum for accommodating and reconciling our 
interests if we accept the implications of our 
inter¬dependence. We must make a determined 
effort to use the opportunities available to us. 
We must seek peace¬ful settlement of the disputes 
that divide us. We must employ the available 
international machinery for the promotion of the 
economic and social advancement of all peoples. 
And we must devote ourselves to the promotion and 
protection of human rights throughout the world.
The European Community and its 10 member States 
pledge their full co-operation in achieving these 
fundamental goals. We believe strongly that we 
have a role to play and a contribution to make in 
this great endeavor. We wish to make our 
contribution in fruitful participation in 
collaboration with the nations of world. We 
understand and support their desire to defend 
their sovereignty and territorial integrity. We 
also re-organize that genuine non- alignment r an 
important factor in maintaining interna-tional 
stability and can make an important contribution 
to bringing about political settlements of the 
conflicts which threaten the world.
42.	The European Community also strongly 
believes that through co-operation and 
partnership we can come to grips with the 
problems of inequity which plague the world 
economy. We shall pursue our efforts in these 
fields with vigor and look forward to building 
the partnership based on mutual trust which is 
neces¬sary to achieve these important goals.
43.	Serious setbacks in East-West relations 
have been a major element in the deteriorating 
international situation during recent years. The 
past years have brought new and disturbing 
violations of the prin-ciples on which the United 
Nations is based. The continued occupation of 
Afghanistan, with the evident willingness of the 
Soviet Union to pursue its aims by use of its 
massive military potential, has contributed to 
the creation of a climate of distrust and tension.
44.	The tragic events in Poland since last 
December, which have taken place under pressure, 
have also had a major negative impact on overall 
East-West rela¬tions. These events, taking place 
in the heart of Europe, cause deep concern among 
the Ten. The Ten have repeatedly called for the 
lifting of martial law, the release of those 
arrested and the restoration of a genuine 
dialogue with the Church and Solidarity. The Ten 
will continue to urge the Polish authorities to 
live up to their declared intentions of 
re-establishing civil liberties and the process 
of reform in Poland as rapidly as possible.
45.	To halt the present negative trend and 
develop substantial and balanced East-West 
relations aimed at genuine detente, the causes 
underlying the negative developments in East-West 
relations should be removed in order to restore 
respect for the principles of the Charter and the 
Helsinki Final Act to ensure mutually 
advantageous co-operation through dialogue and 
negotiations. We have already shown our 
readi¬ness to contribute to a positive 
development of East- West relations and we urge 
the Soviet Union to demonstrate a similar 
inclination.
46.	There is at present much popular concern 
about world tension, the use of force by some 
countries in contravention of die Charter and the 
imbalance in both nuclear and conventional 
weapons. This situation creates international 
mistrust and public anxiety. The latter manifests 
itself in many ways States where freedom of 
expression is guaranteed. The Govern¬ments of the 
Ten recognize arid understand these concerns. We 
have no doubt that similar concern is felt by the 
peoples of States where, regrettably, open 
expressions of popular feeling about the build-up 
of armaments and the consequent burden on 
faltering altering economics have so far been 
suppressed.
47.	A few months ago the Member States met 
for the second special session devoted to 
disarmament. Governments and peoples all over the 
globe had looked forward to this event in the 
hope that it would lead to a fresh impetus in the 
process of disarmament and thereby to the 
reduction of armaments and to huge military 
expenditures. The results of the session were 
disappointing. However, the Ten consider it very 
important that the consensus principle was 
upheld. Furthermore, the session unconditionally 
confirmed the Final Document of the Tenth Special 
Session of the General Assembly the first such 
special session, in 1978. The views presented at 
that session will form a useful basis for future 
dis-cussions and negotiations. It is also 
noteworthy that at the second special session 
devoted to disarmament the Assembly agreed to 
continue the process initiated at the first 
special session.
48.	The member States of the European 
Community will make every endeavor to help 
accomplish this important task. They will 
continue to support all constructive proposals 
which lead to reductions in armaments and to the 
banning of certain types of weapons, and which 
enhance confidence and assure the security of all 
nations. In this respect the Ten strongly support 
efforts of a substantial and realistic nature 
made in the sole negotiating body, the Geneva 
Committee on Disarmament, and in other forums.
49.	The Ten welcome the negotiations 
initiated this summer between the United States 
and the Soviet Union on mutual reductions of 
nuclear strategic arms. These negotiations will 
undoubtedly be difficult. We hope, however, that 
they will result in an early agree¬ment on 
substantial reductions of these weapons.
50.	We welcome also the negotiations between 
the United States and the Soviet Union on 
intermediate- range nuclear forces, negotiations 
which are taking place within the framework of 
the strategic arms reduction talks. It is well 
known that these weapons are of special concern 
to us. We hope that the negotiations will lead to 
concrete results in the near future.
51.	Parallel with arms control and 
disarmament in the nuclear field, substantial 
reductions in the con-ventional field must be 
pursued vigorously.
52.	As regards central Europe, efforts to 
establish a real balance at a Cower level of 
forces between East and West have been pursued in 
Vienna since H73, but progress has been slow. 
However, the Ten note that in the view of Western 
participants the prospects of an agreement have 
increased following the presentation of new and 
concrete proposals in Vienna. Their 
implementation would lead to significant 
reductions and thereby contribute to a more 
stable relationship between East and West and to 
the strengthening of peace and security in Europe.
53.	Furthermore, the Ten have declared 
themselves in favor of a conference on 
disarmament in Europe on the basis of a precise 
mandate to negotiate in a first stage militarily 
significant, binding and verifiable 
confidence-building and security-building 
measures applicable to the whole of Europe.
54.	Efforts at improving East-West relations 
should not be restricted to arms control. There 
is an equally great need for a comprehensive 
East-West dialogue on other subjects, both 
political and economic. The process initiated by 
the Conference on Security and Co-operation in 
Europe is a most important channel for this 
dialogue. The Ten sincerely hope that it will be 
possible, when the Madrid follow-up meeting 
within the CSCE process reconvenes in November of 
this year, to reach agreement on a balanced and 
substantial concluding document. Such a document 
should mark tangible progress within the human 
dimension of the Conference and contain a precise 
mandate for a con¬ference on disarmament in 
Europe. In the opinion of the Ten the draft 
submitted by the neutral and non-aligned 
countries remains a good starting-point for the 
negotiating process in Madrid.
55.	Since the thirty-sixth session of the 
General Assembly and following events in Lebanon, 
which are only the latest element in a chain of 
violence and counter-violence in the area, the 
situation in the Middle East has deteriorated 
further. During the last few months problems 
relating to that situation have occupied the 
Security Council repeatedly, as well as the 
General Assembly. The danger to international 
peace must be evident to all of us.
56.	The Ten recall their vigorous 
condemnation of the Israeli invasion of Lebanon. 
We are horrified by the terrible suffering and 
damage which have been inflicted upon Lebanon and 
its civil population. A large number of innocent 
men, women and children have been killed or 
wounded. Many thousands have been made homeless. 
We are especially shocked and revolted by the 
massacre of Palestinian civilians in Beirut. The 
Ten have strongly condemned this criminal act. An 
authoritative inquiry into the circumstances of 
this incident is clearly necessary.
57.	The Ten reaffirm their solidarity with a 
friendly country whose population has suffered so 
cruelly and whose fragile stability is 
dangerously threatened. They are confident that 
the Lebanese people will be able to bring about 
national reconciliation. The presence of certain 
of their members in the multinational force 
established at the request of the Lebanese 
Government in line with the objectives of 
relevant Security Council resolutions bears 
witness to the attachment of the Ten to the 
restoration of the authority of the Lebanese 
Government. They renew their offer to assist in 
the relief and reconstruction of the country.
