Mr. President, allow me to congratulate you on 
your unanimous election to the presidency of the 
thirty-seventh session of the general Assembly. 
We are gratified that a representative of 
Hungary, with which we enjoy close and cordial 
rela¬tions, has been chosen to preside over our 
delib¬erations.
44.	I would like to take this opportunity to 
express our appreciation of the resolute and 
efficient leader¬ship provided to the Assembly 
during its thirty sixth session by your 
predecessor, Mr. Ismat Kittani.
45.	I would also like to pay a tribute to the 
Secretary- General, Mr. Perez de CueHar, who has 
won our admiration and acclaim for his efficient 
stewardship of the United Nations this year and 
for his skilful handling of several crisis 
situations. We wish him greater successes in the 
future.
4b. India approaches the present session of the 
General Assembly with renewed commitment to the 
principles and purposes of the United Nations. 
The efforts of the United Nations to bring these 
prin¬ciples into the realm of reality deserve the 
support of each one of us, for mankind has a 
great stake in its success. Our endeavor to 
contribute to its success, therefore, is dictated 
by our own will to survive and to pursue our path 
towards progress in a congenial international 
climate, free from domination and exploitation.
49.	Building up self-reliance internally and 
main¬tenance of an independent policy externally 
have been the twin objectives of the Government 
if India since our independence. Traditions 
inherited from our ancient past still remain with 
us, but the leaders of modem India have succeeded 
in inculcating a spirit of adventure and inquiry 
in our people, making them receptive to evolving 
contemporary ideas. In this sense our tradition 
itself has not remained static; it has enabled 
change to come about, with stability and 
continuity being retained all the time. Side by 
side with the development of a rural economy, 
which provides sustenance for the majority of the 
people of India, we have built a modem industrial 
infrastructure which enables us to keep pace with 
the spectacular scientific and technological 
advances taking place in the world. Our mixed 
economy, in which the public sector occupies the 
commanding heights but the private sector 
provides the majority of the means of 
produc¬tion, has proved its resilience and 
strength. Foreign collaboration and technical 
co-operation have pro¬vided an impetus to our 
development, but both have operated within the 
framework of our own national priorities, 
determined by an integrated planning process. The 
stability that we have acquired through our 
democratic institutions, which give our people a 
sense of deep involvement, has proved propitious 
for our progress.
50.	In his thought-provoking report on the 
work of the Organization, the Secretary-General 
has painted a grim picture of the world that we 
live in today. Things have come to such a sorry 
pass that unless they are checked, we will, he 
feels, approach "a new international anarchy". 
These are somber words, coming as they do from 
the Secretary-General. In his very first address 
to the General Assembly, Prime Minister 
Jawaharlal Nehru had warned us that it was 
becoming increasingly apparent that if we did not 
proceed speedily enough towards a world order, we 
would be left with no order in the world. If 
after 37 years of its existence, the Organization 
is unable to offer anything more than mere 
palliatives, the time has indeed come for a 
reassessment, some soul- searching and, above 
all, concrete remedial action. The 
Secretary-General's hands need to be strengthened 
so that he can advise, and if necessary, even 
prod the Security Council into action, to prevent 
outbreaks of fresh conflicts. For it is painfully 
obvious that the Security Council, the discharge 
of whose responsi¬bilities is predicated on the 
principle of concurrence among its permanent 
members, stands paralyzed and immobilized because 
of the inability of the permanent members to rise 
above their narrow national objectives to 
harmonize their positions in the cause of peace.
51.	Although all of us, being representatives 
of nation States, believe strongly in the 
well-known attributes of national sovereignty, it 
should not be difficult for us to see that the 
common good of mankind ought to have a certain 
overriding priority in the scheme of things. In 
any event, national interest cannot be inimical 
to the common good of humanity: the two have to 
go hand in hand and be combined harmoniously, 
despite some seemingly disadvanta¬geous positions 
in the short run at the national level.
52.	AH of us are committed to the goal of 
general and complete disarmament, particularly 
nuclear disarmament. People in every part of the 
world have become acutely aware that, through no 
fault of their own, they would perish if 
strategies nuclear deterrence were tested out, 
since they would obviously be tested out on them. 
They also know only too well that after a nuclear 
conflict either they would not be living at all, 
or, if they do live, that life would be so 
horrible that death would be preferable to it. It 
is this awareness that has forced multitudes of 
people, irrespective of color, creed, religion, 
nationality or political persuasion, tc go out on 
to the streets to urge sanity in dealing with 
matters of life and death. Their loud and clear 
voices signify that there could be no agenda more 
urgent than that for devising immediate measures 
for nuclear disarmament and the prevention of 
nuclear war.
53.	In response to this overwhelming popular 
senti¬ment the world over, the Prime Minister of 
India, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, presented at the 
special session on disarmament this year a 
concrete program of action which included the 
negotiation of a binding convention on the 
non-use of nuclear weapons, a freeze on the 
production of nuclear weapons and fissionable 
material used in the manufacture thereof, the 
suspension of nuclear-weapon tests, and the 
resumption of negotiations for concluding a 
treaty on general and complete disarmament. India 
submitted a number of proposals and draft 
resolutions to facilitate the beginning of a 
serious nuclear disarmament program. Yet the 
opposition of nuclear-weapon States prevented the 
Assembly at the special session from taking any 
concrete steps in this regard. The so- called 
consensus document that finally emerged was so 
insipid as to be meaningless. In the 
circumstances, India had no choice but to 
disassociate itself from the conclusions in the 
document.
54.	The outcome of the special session was 
perhaps yet another instance of what the 
Secretary-General describes as the lack of 
capacity of the Organization to come to terms 
with the present reality. Never¬theless, we shall 
not despair, despite the attempts of a few but 
powerful nations to hold peace hostage to their 
nuclear arsenals and to their own perceived 
security interests. There have been, however, 
some positive albeit feeble indications of late. 
We welcome the evolution in the attitude of some 
nuclear-weapon Powers. It is our earnest hope 
that at this session India's proposals will be 
considered in all serious¬ness and that decisions 
will be taken that will rid the world of weapons 
of mass destruction.
55.	It is gratifying to think that in a world 
teetering on the brink of nuclear disaster the 
vast majority of humanity prefers, wisely, to 
keep out of military alliances devised by great 
Powers. The non-aligned nations know perfectly 
well that military alliances and interlocking 
arrangements do not guarantee peace and 
stability, but on the contrary, serve as a 
potential invitation to intervention and 
involvement in strategic conflicts. The 
preservation of peace, therefore, is at the core 
of the philosophy of non-alignment developed by 
our founding fathers. It becomes more and more 
relevant with every passing day. Its practice has 
enabled India, as our Prime Minister pledged at 
the time of our independence, to look at the rest 
of the world with clear and friendly eyes: clear 
since we are not obliged to look through alien 
glasses of any hue, and friendly since we believe 
that mutually beneficial relations can be forged 
on the basis of equality. Non- alignment, which 
in our lexicon is a synonym for freedom of 
thought and action, has invested our 
inde¬pendence with meaning and content. It has 
also sharp¬ened our determination to oppose the 
evils of im¬perialism, colonialism, racism and 
all manifestations of foreign domination. The 
value and relevance of out non-alignment have 
been demonstrated not only by the increasing 
number of adherents it has found, but also by the 
qualitative change that it has helped to bring 
about in international relations.
56.	Despite manifest diversity in political 
and eco¬nomic outlook and an understandable 
preoccupation with regional problems, the 
essential unity of purpose of non-aligned 
countries remains intact on matters of vital and 
crucial global interest and concern. The unique 
bond among them is the voice of sanity which they 
have raised with consistency and determination. 
In turn, this unity has sustained the prestige 
and influence of the non-aligned movement through 
the constantly shifting patterns in international 
relationships. India is honored that in these 
difficult times it has been called upon to host 
the Seventh Conference of Heads of State or 
Government of Non- Aligned Countries. While we 
are naturally grateful for this opportunity, we 
are mindful of the tremendous responsibility it 
entails. With utmost sincerity, I promise that 
India will do all in its power to be worthy of 
the trust which the movement has reposed in it.
57.	Our neighborhood, the South Asian 
subcon¬tinent, is currently going through a 
process of regional co-operation on the basis of 
mutual benefit. India is gratified at these very 
desirable developments, which are in consonance 
with its own efforts over the years to build 
bridges of understanding among the coun¬tries of 
the region. True, external interference and 
intervention continue to sow suspicions and 
inflame passions. An unprecedented build-up of 
sophisticated arms, unrelated either to 
reasonable needs or to per¬ceived threats, still 
points to the continuance pf strategic consensus 
situations so detrimental to regional 
independence and harmony. Yet one can perhaps 
hope more than hitherto that the subcontinent 
will be able to usher in an era of peace which is 
more comprehensive than the mere absence of war, 
and encompasses relationships of positive 
friendship and co-operation.
58.	The slender thread which the 
Secretary-General has found in the search for a 
political settlement of the situation in 
Afghanistan is another development that has been 
welcomed in our part of the world. There is 
universal reaffirmation of the inadmissibility of 
interference in the internal affairs of States, 
as also of the introduction of foreign troops 
into any country. Here again, given the prospect 
of success of the Secretary-General's effort, 
India feels gratified that its own approach to 
finding a political solution has been vindicated.
59.	We commend the commencement of the Geneva 
talks and trust that they will pick up momentum 
hereafter, to enter substantive areas. We feel it 
is high time they did, and our feeling is in line 
with what the Afghan people urges.
60.	Geographically distant from us but 
equally close to our hearts are the friendly 
people of Kampuchea, who are struggling valiantly 
to remove the ravages caused by a heartless 
dictatorial regime. The advent of an alliance of 
convenience, whose real content is too thinly 
veiled to need any unveiling, should not distract 
our attention. Once the fear of the return of the 
holocaust is removed and the threat to their 
terri¬torial integrity and sovereignty is ended, 
the people of Kampuchea will be willing—nay, 
eager—to get foreign troops to leave their sail. 
The expedients improvised for seating the forces 
without legitimacy in these chambers can hardly 
help either the process of healing the wounds of 
Kampuchea or of finding an acceptable political 
solution. What is needed is the ending of 
confrontation in South-East Asia, which alone 
could have a welcome impact on the stability and 
prosperity of the entire region.
61.	The security environment in the Indian Ocean 
region has further deteriorated because of the 
increased build-up of the military presence of 
great Powers, contrary to the wishes of the 
non-aligned littoral and hinterland States. The 
implementation of the historic general Assembly 
resolution 2832 (XXVI) declaring the Indian Ocean 
a zone of peace, adopted in 1971, has remained a 
distant dream. Theories of balance and doctrines 
of deterrence are being advanced in order to 
justify the introduction of sophisticated 
weaponry into the area.
62.	The Conference on the Indian Ocean, 
originally scheduled to be held in 1981 in 
Colombo, is still post¬poned at the behest of 
those who are far removed from the area. 
Simultaneously, efforts are afoot to subvert the 
fundamental elements of the Declaration set out 
in the 1971 resolution and to distort its 
essential framework. We believe that the time has 
come for the commencement of the process of the 
elimination of foreign military presence from the 
Indian Ocean, that the Colombo Conference should 
be held come what may, in accordance with the new 
schedule, and that it should address itself to 
the question in a forthright manner.
63.	The shifting of fortunes in the war 
between Iraq and the Islamic Republic of Iran and 
the colossal loss of lives and property has once 
again highlighted the futility of war as a means 
of settling disputes. I personally have had the 
experience of participating in the peace-making 
effort on the basis of a mandate given to my 
colleagues from Cuba, Zambia and the Palestine 
Liberation Organization [FLO] and to me at the 
Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of 
Non-Aligned Countries at New Delhi in 1981. My 
colleagues and I are convinced that, while there 
can be no victor or vanquished, the damage 
inflicted on each other by these two neighbors 
will only weaken their ability to meet the 
challenges that face them as developing countries.
64.	The recent conflagration in West Asia 
resulting in the virtual destruction of Beirut 
and the horrid genocide of the Lebanese and 
Palestinian population have shaken the conscience 
of mankind to the very core. It was nothing short 
of a holocaust, imposed, strangely and 
ironically, by none other than Israel. 
Ironically, again, the withdrawal of the PLO from 
Beirut, to save innocent civilians from further 
suffering and devastation, itself led to the 
gruesome massacre of Palestinians in Shatila and 
Sabra. Israel's respon¬sibility, indeed 
complicity, is self-evident. Those who had 
undertaken to protect the Palestinian and 
Leba¬nese civilians in Beirut in the wake of the 
PLO's withdrawal must also share the blame for 
the criminal bloodshed.
65.	The dispersal of the heroic Palestinians 
will neither weaken their will to fight for their 
inalienable rights nor bring peace to the area. 
Occupation of the land of its neighbors will not 
guarantee Israel's security; the effect, if 
anything, will be just the oppo-site. A 
comprehensive solution consisting of Israel's 
withdrawal from all Arab territories occupied 
since 1967, the establishment of a Palestinian 
State and mutual guarantees of security among the 
States of the region must be achieved. There now 
seems to be greater understanding of the fact 
that no com¬prehensive solution will be achieved 
without the active involvement of the PLO, the 
representative of the Palestinian people. In the 
gory drama in Lebanon, the PLO has demonstrated 
great heroism and courage. The PLO and other Arab 
nations have since shown great statesmanship in 
evolving and adopting the Fez Charter", the Final 
Declaration of the Twelfth Arab Summit 
Conference, whose proposals deserve very serious 
consideration.
66.	In recent weeks there have been important 
proposals made by world leaders. They vary in 
approach and content, but fundamental to all of 
them is the recognition that the uprooted people 
of Pales¬tine should secure their legitimate 
rights. In this case, as with other problems, the 
slowing down of the effort to find a solution 
often results in the creation of vested interests 
in the continued non-solution of the problem. 
This leads to prevarication and circum¬vention 
and a long stalemate. This has happened in West 
Asia, with the disastrous consequences which we 
are now witnessing. Therefore the quest for a 
comprehensive solution should be pursued 
relent¬lessly. Instead of indulging in a 
fine-print scrutiny of the various plans mooted 
so far and losing valuable time in endless 
discussions, immediate steps should be taken at 
the United Nations to devise a suitable mechanism 
for finding a permanent solution to the problem 
of West Asia. This is the very minimum that needs 
to be done in expiation of the rivers of innocent 
blood that have been allowed to flow in Lebanon.
67.	Racism and colonialism still rage in 
southern Africa today, with little progress 
either in the elimina¬tion of	or in the 
liberation of Namibia. The people of South Africa 
remains in bondage, despite the universal 
condemnation of the obnoxious discriminatory laws 
of the Pretoria regime. We have been awaiting the 
outcome of the contacts being conducted by the 
five Western States for the imple¬mentation of 
the United Nations plan for free elections in 
Namibia. The South West Africa People's 
Organiza¬tion [SWAPO], the sole and authentic 
representative of the Namibian people, which 
negotiated in good faith for a cease-fire and 
free elections, has reason to apprehend that 
South Africa and its supporters have been 
creating an illusion of progress in these talks 
merely to link up the situation in Namibia with 
extraneous issues. The international community 
will, as it must, intensify its demand for 
punitive action against South Africa under the 
Charter, if the current efforts for a negotiated 
settlement fail to achieve results. South 
Africa's supporters will find it difficult to 
shield it from the wrath of the world for very 
long.
68.	Several old items on the agenda continue 
to engage our attention. Thus the situation in 
Cyprus, unfortunately, still remains frozen. In 
spite of repeated calls of the movement of 
non-aligned countries and the support of the 
international community in general the relevant 
resolutions of the United Nations have not yet 
been implemented. We trust that the inter- 
communal talks will soon bear fruit and the 
question resolved free from external interference 
and in accor¬dance with decisions of the United 
Nations.
69.	More recently, despite the efforts of our 
sagacious Secretary-General, conflict and 
bloodshed in the South Atlantic could not be 
averted.
70.	In Central America there are dangerous 
portents of intervention and destabilization. The 
United Nations cannot remain a mute spectator and 
must lend support to all efforts for dialogue and 
negotiation to create mutual confidence and to 
resolve outstanding disputes.
71.	It is with great satisfaction that we 
note the long and at times difficult negotiations 
successfully con¬cluded with the adoption of a 
universal and compre¬hensive Convention on the 
Law of the Sea. The Convention is a symbol of 
shared expectations of the international 
community and represents a major con¬tribution to 
world peace and the new international economic 
order. Later this year, in December, in Jamaica 
the Final Act will be open for signature. It is 
our earnest hope that the Convention on the Law 
of the Sea will be endorsed by all States with 
prompt signatures and ratifications.
72.	International co-operation for 
development is the topic of our age. We strongly 
believe that our approach to development and 
co-operation will have to be informed by certain 
objective and fundamental considerations. First, 
the arms race is not compatible with the movement 
towards a more stable global development and 
sustainable international order. Secondly, the 
international community cannot aspire to durable 
peace so long as a major component of it remains 
underdeveloped. Thirdly, orderly develop¬ment and 
continued progress can take place opti¬mally only 
in an atmosphere of harmony and co-oper¬ation. 
Fourthly, co-operation demands that the 
privileges which the developed countries have 
been enjoying so far should not be turned into 
rights and that the concerns of the developingcountries 
be taken into account.
73.	Some months ago, in a special session, 
the General Assembly brought out clearly the 
close connection between disarmament and 
development, but failed to draw the requisite 
conclusions from it.
74.	A year ago the two co-Chairmen of the 
Inter¬national Meeting on Co-operation and 
Development, which was held at Cancun, referred 
to the North-South relationship as one of the 
most serious challenges to be faced in the coming 
decades by mankind, together with the maintenance 
of peace. The theme of Cancun was "Co-operation 
and Development". Regrettably, there was no 
agreement as to how the real challenge of the 
North-South relationship was to be met, though, 
as our Prime Minister observed after the Cancun 
meeting the door was kept open for dialogue.
75.	One can only hope that world statesmen 
will take an enlightened and long-term view of 
history. We also need to promote world-wide 
political under¬standing, with the involvement of 
the public, of the connection between the 
North-South relationship and the maintenance of 
peace. This would contribute significantly to 
generating the requisite political will that is 
sorely needed to overcome the present paralysis 
in the North-South dialogue.
76.	Viewed against this background, it is 
most dis¬heartening that the adverse effects of 
the continued deadlock on the negotiating front 
have been com¬pounded by an actual deterioration 
in the North- South relationship. As the report 
of the Committee on Development Planning on its 
eighteenth session^ has illustrated, there is 
both qualitative and quantita¬tive deterioration 
in multilateral economic co-oper¬ation. Examples 
of this are increasing protectionism, high 
interest rates, fast-diminishing concessional 
assistance, the secular decline in prices of many 
commodities, difficulties in access to the 
international capital market and the injection of 
non-economic factors and political considerations 
in the functioning of multilateral economic 
institutions. For the first time since the Second 
World War, the developing countries, taken as a 
group, have registered a fall in their per capita 
output.
77.	Two years ago the Assembly adopted the 
Inter¬national Development Strategy for the Third 
United Nations Development Decade. However, it 
remains a paper document. There is all round 
failure on the part of the developed countries to 
fulfill their commitments. There is no agreement, 
even on the procedures for the global 
negotiations that were expected to contribute to 
the implementation of the Strategy.
78.	Recent developments show that while the 
devel¬oping countries do have a conciliatory 
approach, there is not enough encouraging 
response from the devel¬oped countries. Several 
of them are not negative, yet there are some that 
are not even prepared to think in terms of a 
consensus that can bind the North and the South. 
They are still to be convinced that 
com-prehensive and global negotiations will in 
the long run facilitate the emergence of a viable 
co-operative relationship among the nations of 
the world. As for the developing countries, they 
are not interested in a zero- sum game, but in a 
positive-sum approach. They are conscious of the 
fact that the progress in regard to the 
achievement of the new international economic 
order is inextricably linked with the world 
economic recovery program. Thus, today world 
economic problems can be solved only by joint 
actions. There is no alternative for the 
international community but to move beyond the 
present stalemate to more fruitful, durable and 
just international economic relationships.
79.	Let me now turn to the current problems 
arising from the pursuit of anti-inflationary 
policies, protec¬tionist trends, high interest 
rates and the drying up cf the sources of 
concessional flows. The anti- inflationary 
policies that have been adopted by some developed 
countries are not conducive to growth and 
employment. Consequently, there has been a 
decline in the price per unit of exports by 
developing countries of their raw materials and 
primary products. The exports of industrial products 
of developing countries have been adversely 
affected by growing protectionism. The high 
interest rates are causing serious problems in 
regard to debt burden and access to international 
capital markets. The International Development 
Association [IDA] is in deep trouble. All this 
makes the task of developing countries extremely 
difficult. The situation is particularly grave 
for oil-importing developing countries in regard 
to their balance-of-payments position and the 
development of their energy resources, which 
require large capital outlay.
80.	We should thus lose no time in devising 
feasible strategies that are complementary to 
those predicated on global negotiations for 
restructuring international economic relations. 
Urgent steps need to be taken for a world 
economic recovery program and for building upon 
the limited gains that have been secured through 
North-South co-operation. Agreement should be 
sought wherever possible. Detailed guidelines for 
further work should be drawn up so as to 
facilitate thorough discussions and eventual 
agreement on all connected matters at the sixth 
session of UNCTAD, where this matter will be high 
on the agenda.
81.	Numerous international conferences have 
stressed the need for making efforts concurrent 
with global negotiations in order to achieve 
progress in areas of critical importance to 
developing countries such as food, energy, trade 
and financial flows. The Versailles Economic 
Summit had outlined certain practical areas for 
action. We would urge developed countries not to 
use lack of progress on global negotiations as an 
alibi for inaction. We expect that they would 
translate their suggestions into concrete and 
co-operative programmes of action that would 
contribute to the development of the developing 
countries.
82.	A broad consensus now exists, and indeed, 
this was one concrete gain in Cancun—on evolving 
a strategy to increase food production. We hope 
that a well-thought-out international program 
would emerge in this regard. Efforts must 
continue to devise a global strategy for food 
security and for constant updating of measures 
and actions. It is important to reach agreement 
on an international wheat trade agree¬ment for 
stability of supplies and prices.
83.	In the field of energy the most important 
task is to help oil-importing developing 
countries to exploit their own energy resources. 
At the same time, much greater research 
activities and financial resources are needed for 
developing alternative sources of energy. Ongoing 
studies should be completed early in regard to 
the securing of financing for an increased 
pro¬gram of energy investment through an energy 
affiliate of the World Bank or a special fund, or 
other agreed arrangements.
84.	A further expansion and liberalization of 
the International Monetary Fund [IMF] 
compensatory facility is called for. Indeed, we 
need to give greater consideration to the 
establishment of a completely new 
commodity-related scheme. Predictability in the 
earnings, supply and demand of commodities is an 
objective which we should seriously pursue. This 
calls for adequate and effective price 
stabilization arrange¬ments.
85.	The deterioration in the world trading 
situation is especially affecting countries with 
relatively low per capita income. The 
international trading regime which has emerged 
neither adheres to the principles and rules 
envisaged by GATT, nor is it responsive to new 
circumstances. What is necessary is the most 
careful consideration of the requirements of an 
international trading order that will be 
efficient, equitable and effectively promote the 
development of developing countries. For this 
there should be a return to a set of agreed 
principles in international trading 
relation¬ships, particularly through practical 
support for the principles of multilateralism, 
non-discrimination, non- reciprocity vis-a-vis 
developing countries, trans¬parency and 
predictability consistent with special and 
differential treatment to developing countries. 
Progres¬sive liberalization of the trade in 
textiles, clothing, the leather industry and 
other consumer durables is a matter of great 
importance to the industrial develop¬ment of 
developing countries. The developing coun¬tries 
possess comparative advantages in these areas. We 
expect that the GATT ministerial meeting and the 
sixth session of UNCTAD would agree on con¬crete 
measures in this regard.
86.	The situation created by the second 
massive oil price rise is qualitatively different 
and more acute than that faced by the world 
community at the time of the first energy crisis 
less than 10 years ago. The growth momentum of 
the developing countries was then maintained 
through flows of international finance on 
suitable terms to the countries most adversely 
affected by the crisis and through new modalities 
of concessional developmental assistance. No 
similar effort is visible today or even being 
considered. Instead, private capital and 
investments are suggested as a solution to the 
problems of developing countries. While private 
capital can be useful in certain areas, 
experience clearly shows that it cannot provide 
resources for long-term development aiming at 
social improvement and stability with low or no 
market profit. It cannot alleviate the 
balance-of-payments burdens of developing 
countries. Above all, multi¬lateral aid should 
not be made conditional on cor¬responding in flow 
of private investment. Similarly, the increasing 
recourse to exclusive bilateralism continues and 
must be resisted to the extent such bilateralism 
tends to obstruct multilateral co-operation and 
is pursued at the expense of the latter.
87.	Thus, the international monetary and 
financial system is increasingly pushing 
developing countries towards adjustment policies 
that seriously undermine their stability. This is 
happening at a time when the oil-importing 
developing countries are making efforts against 
such heavy odds as increasing exports during a 
time of declining world demand, raising higher 
and higher resources domestically in order to 
finance the same volume of imports; and bringing 
about reduction in already low levels of 
consumption in order to increase investments and 
savings. There is a limit to which our countries 
can be pushed.
88.	Co-operation among developing countries 
is now viewed both as an essential component of 
the new international economic order and as an 
important instrument for bringing it about. Three 
years ago, the Sixth Conference of Heads of State 
or Government of Non-Aligned Countries at Havana 
had agreed on policy guidelines for reinforcing 
the collective self- reliance of developing 
countries. We note with satis¬faction that a 
process has now been set in motion which is 
continuously enriching the concept, practice and 
content of economic and technical co-operation 
among developing countries.
89.	Concomitant support measures by 
international organizations would be of great 
help in technical preparations for major 
South-South undertakings such as, for instance, 
the establishment of the global system of trade 
preferences among developing countries and the 
setting up of a South-South bank. We believe that 
economic co-operation among developing coun¬tries 
can make a significant contribution to world 
economic recovery. We trust that the Assembly 
will give due and favorable consideration to 
these matters.
90.	This is not the moment to think in terms 
of mutually exclusive alternatives. The present 
sorry state of affairs can be repaired only by 
action on all fronts. We need bilateral as well 
as multilateral co-oper¬ation, official 
development assistance as well as private flows 
of capital, North-South co-operation as well as 
South-South co-operation, global negotiations for 
restructuring international economic relations as 
well as concurrent efforts for securing progress 
in sectoral areas. Let us, therefore, not engage 
in futile debates, but work honestly to secure 
concrete results. I trust that our deliberations 
in the Assembly will lead us to this path.
91.	The German philosopher Hegel believed 
that a notable contribution of man to 
civilization was the creation of the 
nation-State, which provides the individual with 
theopportunity of finding the full satisfaction 
of his needs in co-operation with pie community. 
This Organization, composed of 157 nation States, 
represents the quintessence of the civilization 
that mankind has labored hard over the centuries 
to build. The Prime Minister of India, Shrimati 
Indira Gandhi, recently observed:
"One of the most fascinating riddles of history 
is what makes a group of people share a sense of 
common destiny. Almost always this is the result 
of being together in hardship and humiliation; 
often it comes from being summoned to a heroic 
effort by a great figure or group of people who 
inspire them with a vision of truth or glory''.
The community of nations, as practically every 
distinguished speaker has stressed in the 
Assembly, is confronted with an economic, 
political and moral crisis. Such adversity 
should, instead of dividing us, reinforce our 
resolve to seek and secure our common destiny. 
With such a distinguished gathering of leaders 
from all over the world who have addressed and 
are going to address the Assembly, we cannot 
afford to fail in finding that vision of truth 
and glory. I should like to conclude with the 
conviction that if we pledge to act together, we 
will overcome the crisis that faces us today.
